writing-test-plans/paramaters-and-testcases.md, before:

# Parameters and test cases

## Adding an additional test case

Parameters and test cases are defined in the `manifest.toml` file of every test plan. Let's have a look once again at the `quickstart/manifest.toml` file and add two test cases to the bottom of the file:

{% code title="$TESTGROUND\_HOME/plans/quickstart/manifest.toml" %}
```
...


[[testcases]]
name = "smallbrain"
instances = { min = 1, max = 200, default = 1 }

  [testcases.params]
  word = { type = "string", default = "never" }
  num = { type = "int", default = 2 }
  feature = { type = "bool", default = false }

[[testcases]]
name = "bigbrain"

  [testcases.params]
  word = { type = "string", default = "always" }
  num = { type = "int", default = 10000000 }
  feature = { type = "bool", default = false }
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Feel free to add your own `galaxybrain` test case as well!
{% endhint %}

You can confirm that the [testground client](../concepts-and-architecture/daemon-and-client.md#testground-client) is able to parse the manifest, and enumerate the cases it declares:

```bash
$ testground plan list --testcases | grep quickstart
quickstart    smallbrain
quickstart    bigbrain
```

We would like to take these two cases out for a spin. First, let's prepare our code. Open our `quickstart` plan program and deal with these parameters!

{% hint style="warning" %}
This snippet is routing both test cases to the same function. In practice, you will want to run different logic for each test case!
{% endhint %}

As you can see, a test plan a simple executable that conforms to the [simple Testground contract](../concepts-and-architecture/test-structure.md#the-test-plan-less-than-greater-than-testground-contract), which the SDK facilitates. This makes it super easy to debug and develop. There's beauty in simplicity!

{% code title="$TESTGROUND\_HOME/plans/quickstart/main.go" %}
```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/ipfs/testground/sdk/runtime"
)

func main() {
	runtime.InvokeMap(map[string]runtime.TestCaseFn{
		"bigbrain": 	run,
		"smallbrain": run,
	})
}

func run(runenv *runtime.RunEnv) error {
  var (
    num 		= runenv.IntParam("num")
  	word 		= runenv.StringParam("word")
  	feature = runenv.BooleanParam("feature")
  )
  
	runenv.RecordMessage("I am a %s test case.", runenv.TestCase)
	runenv.RecordMessage("I store my files on %d servers.", num)
	runenv.RecordMessage("I %s run tests on my P2P code.", word)
	
	if feature {
		runenv.RecordMessage("I use IPFS!")
	}
	
	return nil
}
```
{% endcode %}

The time has come now to run these test cases. Let's run it!

```bash
$ testground run single --plan quickstart \
                        --testcase smallbrain \
                        --builder exec:go \
                        --run local:exec \
                        --instances 1
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Try using different runners. This command executes the plan with the `local:exec` runner and `exec:go`builder, but it works just as well with the `local:docker` runner or the Kubernetes `cluster:k8s`runner \(for which you will need to use the  `docker:go` builder!
{% endhint %}

Commit message:

test case parameters: minor fixes

writing-test-plans/paramaters-and-testcases.md, after:

# Parameters and test cases

## Adding an additional test case

Parameters and test cases are defined in the `manifest.toml` file of every test plan. Let's have a look once again at the `quickstart/manifest.toml` file and add two test cases to the bottom of the file:

{% code title="$TESTGROUND\_HOME/plans/quickstart/manifest.toml" %}
```
...


[[testcases]]
name = "smallbrain"
instances = { min = 1, max = 200, default = 1 }

  [testcases.params]
  word = { type = "string", default = "never" }
  num = { type = "int", default = 2 }
  feature = { type = "bool", default = false }

[[testcases]]
name = "bigbrain"
instances = { min = 1, max = 200, default = 1 }

  [testcases.params]
  word = { type = "string", default = "always" }
  num = { type = "int", default = 10000000 }
  feature = { type = "bool", default = false }
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
Feel free to add your own `galaxybrain` test case as well!
{% endhint %}

You can confirm that the [testground client](../concepts-and-architecture/daemon-and-client.md#testground-client) is able to parse the manifest, and enumerate the cases it declares:

```bash
$ testground plan list --testcases | grep quickstart
quickstart    smallbrain
quickstart    bigbrain
```

We would like to take these two cases out for a spin. First, let's prepare our code. Open our `quickstart` plan program and deal with these parameters!

{% hint style="warning" %}
This snippet is routing both test cases to the same function. In practice, you will want to run different logic for each test case!
{% endhint %}

As you can see, a test plan a simple executable that conforms to the [simple Testground contract](../concepts-and-architecture/test-structure.md#the-test-plan-less-than-greater-than-testground-contract), which the SDK facilitates. This makes it super easy to debug and develop. There's beauty in simplicity!

{% code title="$TESTGROUND\_HOME/plans/quickstart/main.go" %}
```go
package main

import (
	"github.com/testground/sdk-go/runtime"
)

func main() {
	runtime.InvokeMap(map[string]runtime.TestCaseFn{
		"bigbrain": 	run,
		"smallbrain": run,
	})
}

func run(runenv *runtime.RunEnv) error {
  var (
    num 		= runenv.IntParam("num")
  	word 		= runenv.StringParam("word")
  	feature = runenv.BooleanParam("feature")
  )
  
	runenv.RecordMessage("I am a %s test case.", runenv.TestCase)
	runenv.RecordMessage("I store my files on %d servers.", num)
	runenv.RecordMessage("I %s run tests on my P2P code.", word)
	
	if feature {
		runenv.RecordMessage("I use IPFS!")
	}
	
	return nil
}
```
{% endcode %}

The time has come now to run these test cases by setting the `--testcase` flag. Let's run the `smallbrain` test case first!

```bash
$ testground run single --plan quickstart \
                        --testcase smallbrain \
                        --builder exec:go \
                        --runner local:exec \
                        --instances 1
```

Watch the output for `MESSAGE`s with the `smallbrain`'s parameters.

```
INFO  0.0112s      START << instance   1 >> {"plan":"quickstart","case":"smallbrain", [...]
INFO  0.0114s    MESSAGE << instance   1 >> I am a smallbrain test case.
INFO  0.0115s    MESSAGE << instance   1 >> I store my files on 2 servers.
INFO  0.0115s    MESSAGE << instance   1 >> I never run tests on my P2P code.
```

Then watch for the different parameters of the `bigbrain` test case.

```bash
$ testground run single --plan quickstart \
                        --testcase bigbrain \
                        --builder exec:go \
                        --runner local:exec \
                        --instances 1
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Try using different runners. This command executes the plan with the `local:exec` runner and `exec:go`builder, but it works just as well with the `local:docker` runner or the Kubernetes `cluster:k8s`runner \(for which you will need to use the  `docker:go` builder!
{% endhint %}
